# Foreword {-}

Back at the beginning of 2011, when I first started doing the
experiments in generic programming that would eventually turn into
shapeless, I had no idea that five years later it would have evolved
into such a widely used library. I am profoundly grateful to the
people who have trusted me and added shapeless as a dependency to
their own projects: the vote of confidence that this represents is a
huge motivator for any open source project. I am also hugely grateful
to the many people who have contributed to shapeless over the years:
eighty one at the time of writing. Without their help shapeless would
be a far less interesting and useful library.

These positives notwithstanding, shapeless has suffered from one of
the common failings of open source projects: a lack of comprehensive,
accurate and accessible documentation. The responsibility for this
lies squarely at my door: despite acknowledging the lack I have never
been able to find the time to do anything about it. To some extent
shapeless has been saved from this by Travis Brown's heroic Stack
Overflow performance and also by the many people who have given talks
about and run workshops on shapeless (in particular I'd like to
highlight Sam Halliday's "Shapeless for Mortals" workshop).

But Dave Gurnell has changed all that: we now have this wonderful book
length treatment of shapeless's most important application: type class
derivation via generic programming. In doing this he has pulled
together fragments of folklore and documentation, has picked my brain,
and turned the impenetrable tangle into something which is clear,
concise and very practical. With any luck he will be able to make good
on my regular claims that at its core shapeless is a very simple
library embodying a set of very simple concepts.

Thanks Dave, you've done us all a great service.

Miles Sabin\
Creator of shapeless
